The great Master Nagardyana said also in the teaching that the Devotee films scholar, scholar and
lecturer, and is one of the great masters, master in human history.
He also said the devotion is so important and without the devotion there is nothing really we can
reach.
He said in one of the realization enlightenment will not come in his like the garland of the Madem
aka,
break his garland of the Mademaka. In that teaching he said, "To reach the enlightenment we need to
ingrate," he said, "the wisdom and the devotions."
This is the most important. Wisdom is so important to look at the realization, but even before the
wisdom he said,
even before the wisdom devotion is needed to ignite and sizzling, to bring that meaning what you
learned from the wisdom have to settle in the heart.
That is the by the devotion he said. So therefore devotion even comes before the wisdom.
And if you have this integrated and then enlightenment will come and grow the realization.
Because when we don't have the devotion, knowledge becomes, the knowledge of course is very
important, it's so special,
but knowledge becomes almost kind of dry. It really don't sink in the heart, in the mind.
It helps, but it won't get full benefit from that knowledge.
If we would like to get full knowledge from that knowledge to this line and the next line and all
the time,
then devotion is the most powerful ingredient that will make, that knowledge is absorbing the heart
and then become,
bring the realization. So it is like devotion is like moisture. Devotion is a warmth.
Devotion is like sunlight that brings full growth of this. The realization comes.
And for that reason, then again Gurbam Sama said, at the beginning of this Laidom there is for
reaching enlightenment,
there is four things we need. One of that we said is so strong that devotion is the most important.
That's what we said. So this is again general kind of overview of this.
Every in the teachings said, new practice meditate, devotion you should must ignite it.
So they bow each other, devotion, and for your own second thought. Those are really good to ignite
and bring forward.
Then it's settled down that practice is just the most powerful meaning of the practitioner.
So therefore, it's just a kind of overview of the minding of the how and importance of the dev
otions.